# Makeup-Recommendation-Thesis

With superfluous amount of products in the beauty industry across the world, along with ample information on how to use them through numerous blogs or videos, it is difficult to scour through the noise while settling on one product for the customer, based on their needs. There are quite a lot of choices, options and information but the relevance of the products is an area of uncertainty [7].The customers really value their time and what they put on their skin. As a consumer, one would want to spend as less time and still get the best product suited for their demographics.

While the beauty industry has progressed over the years, the technology inculcated has really helped in shaping the industry in the past decade. We now have try on apps that use Augmented reality(AR), or smart skincare tools or printed makeup, or customization with Machine Learning and AI in skincare, fashion or hair care [9], but, surprisingly, there still lies a huge market gap when we look at the Makeup industry in particular. The gap in the market, was between finding a product via skincare articles, blog posts and knowing whether or not they should spend the money to try it out[7].

With the amount of noise in the market, it is not only difficult for consumers to understand what to pick for their needs, it is equally difficult for brands to find new ways to stand out with each brand selling same set of products with a little tweak either in formula or packaging or shade ranges. It has become important now, more than ever, to help customers find products catered to their needs. The beauty brands also want to have their users engaged at all times, which has been especially difficult due to the pandemic. Makeup recommendation systems could help users figure out what would fit their requirements.
Although there is plenty of research on product recommendation systems, there is not much work done on recommendation systems that cater to under-serving skin tones in the beauty community. In this report we present an approach that would consider the user’s skin tone, skin type and recommend the best suited products. The approach shows an accuracy of 64% while considering all the skin tones and skin types on self-scraped data set, extracted from the Sephora.
 
